All right. Hello, everybody. We are so excited to have you for the first day of rPharma for 2024.
Thank you, Harvey, for those wonderful opening remarks. And it is my sincere pleasure to be able
to introduce our first keynote speaker, who honestly, for this crowd, definitely does not
need an introduction. He was actually one of our very first presenters when rPharma began many
years ago. And I can speak for many of us, I'm sure, when we were completely amazed by
the directions that we can take Shiny in the pharmaceutical space. But now,
it's even much more than that. So I'm thrilled to introduce the positive CTO, architect of Shiny,
Joe Cheng. So Joe, the floor is yours. Thank you for being here.
Thank you. Hello, everyone. I am super pleased to be here talking to you
about Shiny. rPharma is one of my favorite conferences. And it is with sort of mixed
feelings that I come to you talking not only about Shiny, but also about AI. And I have a
feeling that a lot of you might be a little skeptical of this topic. I myself have been
quite skeptical about this topic in the past. And it's easy. It's easy to be skeptical about
Gen AI these days. I mean, the kinds of claims that people are making about what LLMs can do
are just so fantastical. And even like much more science fictiony claims about what's about to
happen in the next couple of years. It's all a lot to take. And the effective accelerationist movement
is like, to me, pretty cringey. If this is not something you've heard of, don't Google it. You
don't need to spend your time like that. And meanwhile, in the real world, what we're seeing
when we use these tools is they have all these limitations like chat GPT is constantly telling
us plausible falsehoods. We have co-pilot writing code that often just doesn't work or doesn't make
sense. Not to mention all the AI generated nonsense that has taken over Facebook, both in
comments and in posts and in images being posted. It's all enough to ask like, is this even the
future that we want, that we want to be running towards? And I have sort of changed my mind to
have actually a pretty optimistic view about the usefulness of these sort of AI tools.
In terms of like the Gartner hype cycle, the plateau of productivity that's coming for LLMs,
I think is going to be like pretty incredible. And I think of it as like when the iPhone came out,
if you just thought of it as a phone, then not actually that exciting. And I think like judging
LLMs by just your experience of chat GPT is similar. Like what was interesting about the
iPhone is that it put compute touchscreen sensors and connectivity in your pocket and everyone's
pocket. And like, it was hard to tell in the beginning what were going to be the specific
things that the iPhone is going to be really exciting and useful for, but you knew it was
going to be something. And I sort of feel that way about LLMs, not when viewed through the lens of
chat GPT, but when viewed through the lens of their APIs. I just feel like every programmer
on earth who cares to now can have access to a magic function that approximates human reasoning.
Now it may not perfectly reason, but the kinds of reasoning that it does has never been available to
programmers in the past. And now it is available to all programmers. And I think that interesting
things are definitely going to happen. So I want to set this up by starting with a demo and kind of
showing what me and my team have been doing. Some of the things that we've been doing with this magic
function in the cloud. And use that as a little bit of motivation for the next section, which is
we're going to talk about how does this actually work? Like as our programmers, how do we call LLMs?
And then finally, just to get a little bit into this conversation about, so we know these things
are cool. We know that they're powerful and they're easy to use. Hopefully I'll demonstrate
that they're easy to use. What are some implications for how we can use these responsibly and not
be tricking our users and stakeholders with incorrect answers that are very beautifully
presented? So let me start by showing a demo. I'm going to start with a very sort of general
example that has nothing to do with pharma, because it is a data set that I'm more comfortable
talking about. This is just a restaurant tipping data set. I showed a version of this app earlier
this year. And what you see on the right-hand side, filling out most of the page, is a very typical
Shiny app, a very typical Shiny dashboard. And you have some metrics at the top, you have
a view of the raw data, and then a scatter plot and a ridge plot at the bottom. And in any normal
Shiny app, you would expect on the left there to be some controls, some sliders, some drop-downs
that let you filter the data on the right. And in this case, we've replaced all that with a chatbot.
So this chatbot is powered by GPT 4.0. And I can ask it to filter the dashboard the same way that
I would want it to be filtered in a normal Shiny app. So I can say, like, show me only bills over
$20 on Sundays. So I ask the chatbot to do that filtering for me. It recognizes that I'm making
a filter request and performs that filtering for me. Now, notice at the top, there's the SQL query.
It says select star from tips where total bill greater than 20 and day equals Sunday. This is
important for a couple of reasons. Number one, this is the chatbot showing me its work. I'm able
to look at this SQL query and determine whether I think it is correct. And if it's correct, then I
can trust it. Because the second part of this is the only way this chatbot has the ability to alter
any of the rest of this Shiny application is through this SQL query. It has no direct ability
to affect any UI on the screen. And that's really important because if we were relying on this
chatbot to draw all these pictures for us, to fill up this table with data, I personally in 2024,
I wouldn't trust it to do that. I mean, I think that is way too much risk of hallucination and you
would end up with numbers that are subtly wrong. This way, it's really only the SQL query that I
have to verify looks correct. And it turns out that the best foundation models these days are
quite good at writing SQL queries. And it is almost invariably right. There are a couple
conditions, some advanced queries that it can stumble on, no different than a human. But for
the vast majority of queries, it's not only going to be right, but it's going to be pretty
clearly right. Even someone who doesn't know a lot of SQL could look at this and it looks pretty
good. So let me make this a little more complicated. I say, like, okay, so we're
showing total bills greater than 20 and Sundays. Let me also show all Saturdays.
And now we're getting into territory that a traditional Shiny app with filters on the side,
it would actually be pretty difficult to represent this kind of a Boolean expression
of, like, this set of conditions or this condition is not something that we is easy to do in your
typical Shiny UI. So this particular Shiny app also has another feature where let me just reload
to reset. And you can see that there are some metrics on the top, but not all the metrics you
might be interested in. So, like, one of the things this data set has is the size of the party. So I
can say, like, what's the average party size? That's not listed here. But I can say what is
the average party size. And once again, the LLM, it does not have access to our actual data. All
it has the ability to do is to write SQL queries and get answers that way. And for the exact same
reason that we want to be able to see how it is reasoning and to be able to check its work. And
here, indeed, we can see that the SQL that it wrote looks correct. This answer looks the same
as here. So we can trust this. We can trust this data. I can go further and say break that down
by day and time, say. And, you know, these can get sort of arbitrarily complicated.
The final feature I want to show you of this particular dashboard is there are these buttons
next to each of the plots. So this is a plotly plot and it's fully interactive. But maybe I'm
not used to reading these kinds of, you know, like I'm not sure what a low S is and I'm not
sure how to interpret this trend line. So I can click this button and what this will do is it'll
take a screenshot of the plot and send it to GPT 4.0, send it to our large language model and ask
it to explain what it sees. And if you want, you can ask follow-up questions. So the combination
of all of these capabilities, I think they're intended to be general. But I wanted to come
and show an example that was pharma related. And actually, Eric helped me with this because
this data and this plot is taken from the Submissions Pilot 2 project that Eric and others
worked on. I do not have a pharma background. I don't really know what we're looking at here. But
I think it's a Kaplan-Meier plot, if I'm not mistaken, that is showing like TTE data across
these, you know, three treatment arms. So I've applied the same technique here as I did to the
dashboard tipping. So let's start out by asking the chatbot, like, what's even available here?
So I can say, like, what demographic variables do you have access to? And we can see, like,
what was in our data set? So we have some various things, age, race, sex, BMI, things like that.
So I can say, so show only subjects of age 70 or greater. And once again, it is performing SQL.
And if the SQL looks good, then the answers are correct. And I can ask questions like,
how does the mean TTE vary by years of education? I didn't actually try this
query before. I actually have no idea what's going to happen here.
Awesome. This is why it's important to run through your demos before you do them.
Let's try something else. I'll say, like, how does the mean TTE vary by treatment arm?
And once again, I don't know if this is a sensible question to ask, but, you know, I asked it.
And we got, once again, SQL and a table of answers. So those are a couple of
quick demos of how we can just one idea for how we can use this technology together with Shiny.
And the code is available in these two public repos. The second one is actually slightly simpler
and easier to read than the first one. But both of these demos were written to be easy to fork.
So if this technique looks interesting to you and you'd like to try to apply this to your own data
and visualizations, please take a look at those repos. And, you know, a few people out there have
already discovered these repos and been successful in reproducing these kind of demos already.
Now, there are a bunch of things that those demos do that use things that, unless you have
are really close to what we're doing at Posit, you might not know about. And I'm going to try to
explain everything except for the Shiny part. So hopefully, if you come to this knowing Shiny,
then I will talk about all the other parts that you need to understand in order to create
these kinds of applications. So the LLM parts. Before we get there, I just want to talk about
there are a couple other really there are several really interesting things other people in the
community are doing both inside and outside of Posit are doing with LLMs and R. There are a
number of packages that are creating ways for the RStudio IDE to make use of LLMs in ways besides
just copilot. So there are these various packages that in various ways kind of create time-saving
little helpers to help you, you know, write better code or answer questions about your data and
things like that. There are other experiments that we have been running inside of Posit,
like mostly for fun and for learning. And it's really been interesting how many
cool scenarios are enabled by LLMs or, you know, things that were possible before but are just made
so, so much easier now using these language models. But it hasn't all been sunshine and
roses. We've definitely had some experiments that have failed where we've tried to have the LLMs
do their own data summarization and interpretation, statistical analysis, without the benefit of
calling out to R and Python. And those are mostly quite spectacular failures. We've had trouble
getting them to generate very complicated regular expressions and explain them. And most
disappointingly, we were hoping that we could use LLMs with some sort of techniques to ingest
all of our technical documentation at Posit. And it's just it's not quite reliable enough for us
for us to deploy that out to production yet. So, I don't want to stand here and say everything is
always going to work. That's definitely not the case. That being said, let's get into the nuts
and bolts. How do we use LLMs from R? So, I come bearing great news. I come bearing gifts in the
form of packages. Number one, there's this new package called Elmer that's just a few weeks old,
created by none other than Hadley Wickham. It is a package for R for working with chat APIs.
The pros are it is easy. I mean, I'm going to show you in a second. I believe that it's the
easiest LLM API client in any language. Or at least tied for easiest. I don't think there's
anything easier out there. Secondly, it's powerful. It's designed for exactly the capabilities that
we thought were really important for people in R and in Shiny, which is multi-turn conversations,
streaming, async, and tool calling. And we'll talk about most of those things.
And it is compatible. You can use it with OpenAI. That's the company with the models
behind ChatGPT. You can use it with Anthropic, which is the company behind Claude,
Google Gemini, AWS Bedrock, and open source models as well. So, it is designed for us
to be able to expand the set of models as new models and new APIs arrive.
And I just want to acknowledge that there are a bunch of other packages that are out there,
including a bunch of them that are already on CRAN, that have other people's takes on working
with chat APIs from R. None of them do exactly the set of things that we needed in order to
make this work for Shiny, especially the async part was a huge pain to implement and was very,
very important to us. So, here's how you use Elmer. To get started, the most difficult part
is that if you're using one of these commercial models, you need an OpenAI API key. Or, sorry,
you need an API key. And if you're using OpenAI, for example, you need an OpenAI API key and for
this environment variable to be set. Doing so is pretty easy. You just go to the OpenAI site and
create a key. You do need to pay for it. Like, I think $5 will easily get you started for, like,
a week of experimentation. It's surprisingly cheap when you start programming against these things.
So, you need to get that key and assign it as an environment variable, probably in a .R
environment file. There are instructions on the Elmer site for how to do this part.
But once you've done that, then you can simply call chat OpenAI to create a to start a conversation
using an OpenAI model. And in this case, we're using GPT 4.0, which is their best general purpose
model. We can also give oops. We can also provide a system prompt, which are sort of, like,
the ground rules that describe how you want this chat bot to behave in this session. And in this
case, we want it to be terse. Don't go on and on like chat GPT usually does. So, the first question
I ask it using this chat method is when was the R language created? And it says the R language was
created in 1993. And then I can call chat again. And if I call chat again, that's actually
continuing a conversation. So, this chat object automatically keeps track of the previous questions
and answers. So, this follow up question I'm asking, who created it? If Elmer was not keeping
track of the previous part of the conversation, then this question would not make sense. But it
is so it knows that I'm referring to, like, who created R and it says Rasa Haqqa and Robert
Gentleman. So, one nice thing about Elmer is that if you use it from the console, you see the answers
stream in the same way that they do in chat GPT or in the Cloud website.
That being said, programmatically what's happening is when you call the chat method,
you are getting a single string back when the entire response has completed. We also have
true streaming using a stream method where you can get incremental results back. I won't go into any
more detail about that today. But that is an important capability if you want to take this
sort of streaming data, not just show it at the console, but to send it somewhere. Which we
definitely do in Shiny. And speaking of Shiny, these two methods also have async versions
so that your Shiny apps can stay responsive and scalable even if a lot of people are having
conversations at once. And if that doesn't mean anything to you, if you're not familiar with async
stuff in Shiny, don't worry about it. You don't need to understand that to get a lot out of this
tool. The next thing that Elmer does for you is I think one of the lesser known things that LLMs can
do, but definitely the most exciting to me, and it's a feature called tool calling. And what tool
calling lets you do is it lets you give new capabilities to an LLM by writing functions.
In our case, by writing R functions. So LLMs are just models that are, you know,
sitting on a server somewhere. They don't have the ability to execute code. They don't have the
ability to access the internet. They don't even know what the current time is or what kind of
server they're running on. They are just static models that were trained in October, you know,
2023 in the case of GPT 4.0. So by adding our own tools or R functions, we can make them a lot more
powerful and give them capability. So the way we do that is we write R functions and then we expose
them to the LLM. And once we've done that, then when we're speaking with the LLM, the LLM can
decide to call these functions with whatever arguments it chooses. And then whatever the
response is that's returned, it can integrate that new information into its responses if it
wants to. So just to give you an example of that, one thing that these chat APIs definitely cannot
do is they don't know what the current weather is. So the first thing that we want to do is we need
to create a function in R that can get the current weather. And there's an open media package that
does a really awesome job of this. So we'll write our friendly little wrapper around this and put
some Roxygen documentation in there. So get current weather takes the latitude and longitude
and returns the current weather in JSON form. Secondly, now that we have that function called
get current weather, we need to tell our chat object about it. So once again, I'm creating an
open AI chat using GPT 4.0. And then we're calling the register tool method and telling it about this
function. And this function basically sums up the documentation but in this more structured way so
that open AI can understand it. Now this code here is a little bit annoying to write, especially when
we already wrote the documentation. So you do not have to write that code by hand. There is a function
called create tool def and you just pass it the function, the documented function, and it will
generate this code for you and then you just paste it in. Now that we've done that, now that we've
given this tool to the chatbot, now we can ask it, like, what's the weather at Fenway Park, which is
a baseball stadium in Boston. And it can go and under the covers it's doing whatever it needs to
do, but it comes up with an answer and replies to us. And we can peek under the covers a little bit
by taking that chat object and printing it and we can see what happens. So the user asked, what's the
weather? The assistant called get current weather with the latitude and longitude because the LLM
happens to be quite excellent at taking place names and turning them into lat longs. If not, then we
could install another tool to do that. And then finally, the user returns the result or, you know,
Elmer returns the result and the chatbot responds with that information incorporated.
Now, that's a very simple example, but there's all sorts of things that we can do if we have
the ability to add tools. So what we just saw was fetching data. So you could have them search the
web, you can have them call an API like a weather API and give them all sorts of access to information
that they don't normally have. You could have LLMs perform calculations. LLMs are extremely bad at
math for various reasons. And by giving them tools, you could have them write R or Python code
to execute. That's actually when you use chatgpt.com, it's actually doing that for you
quite routinely. You could use LLMs could have tools to call other gen AI models. For example,
you could hook up an image generation like stable diffusion or Dali. You could make that available
to a chatbot using tools. And you can also provide tools that let LLMs take actions.
You can in the context of a Shiny app, you can let an LLM modify a reactive value. That's what
happened in my side bot demo. I was having it update a reactive value. That's what's the current
SQL query that we want to apply. Or you could have it navigate to a page or a tab or all sorts
of things you could imagine a user doing in a Shiny app. You can let an LLM do that. You could
imagine an LLM calling an API that controls your smart light bulbs. So you could build a DIY Alexa
for your house if you wanted to using tools. You could have them take actions on APIs like setting
GitHub issues, for example. There's no limit to what these tools can do. They're a very general
capability. So now that we've talked about Elmer, and I sincerely do hope that everyone
goes and gives that a try, now there's the question of how do you take an Elmer chat and
bring it into Shiny and create a chat interface? And the answer is this Shiny chat package. Neither
Elmer nor Shiny chat are currently on CRAN, but they both will be within the next couple of weeks.
But for now you can install it from GitHub. So Shiny chat provides a very simple chat bot UI
for Shiny for R. And it is designed to work really well with Elmer, but also hopefully to work with
any other chat clients that might emerge in the future that people might want to use
with Shiny. I'm not going to go too deep into this, but just to show you the order of magnitude
of effort it is to create a chat bot. This is a complete example of a Shiny chat bot.
You have your UI saying, here's where I want the chat to appear. You create your chat object,
just like I've demonstrated on the last few slides. In this case, the system prompt is,
you're a trickster who answers and riddles. And then any time the user submits input,
then we ask the chat object to start streaming the answer to that. And then we use this chat
append function to send it into the UI. And just to show you what that very, very simple Shiny app
looks like, it's like this. So I can say, what's the largest U.S. state by area?
And it's actually really annoying after the first time. Okay. So
putting this all together, I've now shown between Elmer and tool calling and Shiny chat,
these are all the pieces that you need in order to implement something like those side bot demos
from the beginning. So you create a Shiny interface using Shiny chat, you converse using
Elmer, and then you register tools to control parts of your Shiny app. Okay. I'm really running
low on time. So I'm going to fly through this probably the most important part about using
LLMs responsibly. But also, I don't come from a pharma background. So I don't have a lot of
pharma specific answers here. But I do want to talk about some of the general approaches that
we've been thinking about these problems. So there are a lot of dangers. The most obvious,
incorrect, and unverifiable answers. These things are really uneven at the reasoning.
There are math and coding capabilities. Not bad, not good, uneven, which is maybe the most
dangerous of all. You know, these the results are not interpretable, because these are giant
black boxes. Or at least you have to go through a lot of effort to make them somewhat interpretable.
They're definitely not reproducible. There's no seed that you can set on open AI. There's a seed,
but there's no seed that you can set that will guarantee that in a couple of years you'll get
the same result from the API. You absolutely will not. There are data security privacy issues. So
I'm just going to go a little more in depth into some of these. The most important ones to me. So
incorrect and unverifiable answers are the most important. And right off the bat, it's okay to
say no. It's okay not to use AI if you need your answers to be deterministic and correct. Let me
just say that off the bat. But if there are cases where sort of AI is worth the slight uncertainty,
then design your AI workflows to keep a human in the loop if the answers need to be correct.
So giving the user the ability not just to inspect the answers, but what was the method used to get
the answers, like you saw with the SQL in my shiny example. If possible, use software to verify
the LLM's answers. Like for example, when LLMs generate code, sometimes there's syntax errors.
You can use software to detect syntax errors very easily and send those back to the LLM.
And often they can sort of try to auto recover very nicely. And finally, like identify use cases
with squishy answers. Use cases where you want to use software, but the answers are not inherently
very quantitative or, you know, objective. So, you know, creating summaries or certain kinds
of sentiment analysis feel like really excellent uses for LLMs for the most part. And finally, like
we want to always be clear with the user that AI is being used and that the answers might not be
correct. So as tempting as it is to just kind of put up our AI features and pretend like they're
perfect, we should really be clear with the user that they should be paying attention and
checking their work. Just in the interest of time, I'm just going to skip through this. The last
one I really want to talk about is data security and privacy. And this matters for every large
corporation for sure. Every company, including Posit, we are loathe to send queries that might
have our proprietary code, our private data, any other kinds of trade secrets to these startups,
right, that we don't have legal agreements with really and the terms of use are, you know, kind
of unclear and can change over time. So I just want to point out, oh, there are a couple of
alternatives. Number one, the most obvious one is open models. Like there are models that you can
deploy on any server of your choosing or on your MacBook, like the llama family of models. A lot of
people think of this first when they think of data security, but I will warn you that I have found
these models so far to be a lot less smart, especially for the kinds of things that we've
been trying to do on the Shiny team. However, I think maybe the most hopeful answer is that AWS
and Azure have hosted models, hosted Anthropic and OpenAI models, including their latest and
greatest. And they do have guarantees that, you know, if you're trusting them with your databases
already, if you're trusting AWS with your S3 data, with your Postgres data, with your, you know, what
have you, then there's really probably no reason why your corporate IT or legal should have any
problem with using AWS hosted LLMs as well. Okay. Thank you. That is what I have. And here are the
links if you want to learn more about Elmer and ShinyChat. Well, thank you so much, Joe. And
rest assured, we budgeted time for this. So we got a lot of questions that I'd like to pick your
brain on as we go. And certainly feel free to send them in the chat. I'm going to talk about a few of
them here. I've been keeping track. I got a little notepad here. So we'll fire away here.
First, Ian Wallace is asking, would you trust it to generate, say, a Reactable output or a
ggplot2 output in, say, a Shiny app, if it was showing you transparently the function and the
code it was using to do it, much like you were showing with the SQL queries in the demonstration
apps? What are your takes on that? Yes. Really good question. So I think there's a couple of
answers to that. I would probably trust it to get that code correct 80% of the time to 90% of the
time with Cloud. Actually, if you're limiting it to a single output or you know specifically the
kind of output that you want, yeah, like maybe even like 95% to 100% of the time with Cloud 3.5
Sonnet. That being said, if the people who are visiting your app are not people you trust, if
they're people from outside your organization, you are having a potentially malicious person
write a prompt that's going to go to an LLM that's going to return code that you are then going to
execute on your server. So that is the reason why my application was so specifically targeting SQL.
And SQL itself is not completely without risk. But it is far, far, far lower risk than, hey,
please write me some R and Python code. So I do think that is something that a lot of startups,
a lot of companies are doing. But when you do that, you do have to be a little bit careful that
you either trust all of your users or that you run your R or Python in some kind of more
sandboxed environment so you don't have the risk of, you know, malicious code doing
nasty stuff. That being said, I think what I'm more excited about is like having an LLM generate
not React table code directly, but some kind of data expression, some kind of declarative,
like a DSL about what kind of React table it wants. Like, for example, I don't want it to write
TG plot code. I want it to write a Vega specification. You know, because the chances
of doing damage are much lower. That being said, that particular case we tried it doesn't work
very well. But we're working on it. We really want it to work. And you could definitely imagine
that React table and GT could have versions, you know, of their functions that are like,
please give me a JSON blob instead, instead of writing raw code.
Yeah, that's quite interesting. And it has taken me a little bit to grasp kind of the
priority you can put in terms of abstractions that you're expecting the LLM to help with.
And then you as the end user, of course, verifying that, but making sure you have these safeguards
in place, so it's not going willy nilly of everything. But there was a related question
on that from Leonard going back to the SQL query aspect of it. Would you suspect that, say, a
malicious user would be able to manipulate these AI to give, say, SQL injections by chance? Or do
you think that's an issue that's not really relevant here? Yeah, that's a good question.
I think for this particular example, we're actually loading the data into memory as a
data frame and then using DuckDB. So, this is actually, number one, it's
I think I marked it read only. So, like, DuckDB will actually not let you
inject any changes. And then secondly, in the prompt for maybe the most interesting part of
these shiny apps is not the R code, but the prompt. And here I think I tell it, like,
please only do select queries. And I personally have not been able to trick it into doing a
non-select query. And I also have not been able to get it to call any dangerous functions
in the select query. So, it might be possible. And I think if you were doing something with
really trusted data or against a live database, you definitely want to do your own due diligence
on this. And of course, always use, you know, database credentials with the least privileges
for that situation that you can get away with. So, in this situation, even if you're connecting
to a live database, you should definitely use read-only credentials.
Yeah, that's excellent advice. And I'm glad you're showing this here because this is one of the
things that I had to unlock in my brain as I was sitting down with this, is the idea of these more
verbose prompts. But it's not such a nebulous concept. This is as if you are coaching somebody
at your side, giving them kind of, in our industry, we often talk about specifications
and requirements for programming deliverables. This is kind of similar to almost like a new
employee orientation to a project. It's just like that. Yeah, it just took me a while to grasp that.
But these examples have been hugely helpful for me to kind of get at that key concept.
So, let me be clear about what we're looking at here. When you create that chat OpenAI, you know,
object, you pass in a system prompt. And all my examples that I showed in my slides, where you
just pass in a string, this is what that string looks like for this app. And it's long enough that
I wanted to write it as a markdown document. But ultimately, it gets read in prompt.
Oh, I buried it in a function. Anyway, it's basically doing a read lines on that file and
then just like slamming it into this chat OpenAI call. So, yes, these prompts can get extremely
long, not just like, you know, two sentences, but it can be megabytes of data. And, you know,
in some cases, well, kilobytes, hundreds of kilobytes, maybe not megabytes, not in 2024.
Yeah, not yet anyway. So, another question here,
that's getting back to kind of the scope of evaluation here. Chiao, I believe I'm saying
that right, is asking, since the main structure of the output is kept the same in the demonstrations
you showed, is the AI only interacting with, say, data filtrations and data operations and not
anything else? That is correct. And that was on purpose, because I didn't trust it to do
anything else. And once again, like wanting to be able to see exactly how did it come to these
answers? You know, like, what is the SQL query? So, yes, that the focus of this particular app
was very much about, like, how do we do this responsibly? How do we do this with a minimization
of, you know, getting wrong answers and not knowing that they're wrong? But certainly,
if you want to be more adventurous and, you know, if the stakes are such that you can live on
the edge and sort of learn as you go what these LLMs can and cannot do, certainly you can get much
more ambitious than this. Yeah, I've told you a little bit and, you know, sometimes it doesn't
work in every case. But, yeah, there's lots of different use cases here. There was some
quick information in the chat. There is a concept about what can we do as a developer of these,
especially in our industry, we want to have more transparency in what's happening here.
Is there a concept such as logging or keeping track of these calls back and forth? And I believe
Carson has been trying to give some input as well to get, say, the chat history of these calls. Yes,
you do have the ability to programmatically get the chat history, and sometimes that's, like,
quite important for some scenarios. So, you definitely do have the ability, if you're writing
a Shiny app and you want to, say, like, generate an R Markdown report that reproduces all the
analysis that you see on the screen, but now you also want to include, here's the conversation that
led to this set of inputs, that's not a feature that's built into Elmer, but it's certainly,
all you have to do is take that Elmer object and say, give me the messages, and then you decide
how you want to, you know, transmit that to the person on the other end. Excellent, excellent.
I'm probably playing with in more rigorous situations and getting back to using the
models to help generate, say, analysis code or R code or Python code, whatever have you.
What is your experience in terms of which LLMs are performing best for getting accurate code?
Do you have a, like, a benefit and trade-off perspective there? Yeah, Cloud 3.5 Sonnet is my
go-to, and supposedly it's gotten even better in the last few days with the, they just released
an update. I will say I have not used Google Gemini in Angular, but I use GPT-4.0 and
Cloud a lot, and for coding tasks, I always go to Cloud first.
Excellent, excellent. So far, when I've been playing, it has been more on the code generation
side, but it is on my list. Also, a quick plug for the Gen AI day that we had back in September.
There was good discussion about the trade-offs of models there as well, so really, really interesting.
Well, I will say for people who are, you know, not able to use those services because of, you know,
your very good reasons for corporate IT insecurity, that there are a lot of people at Posit
who are working on, you know, commercial products that can't, you know, they can't send
any of their code to those models. So there have been people using local models with OLAMA, O-L-L-A-M-A,
which, it makes running local models, like, pretty much approximately as easy as Docker
desktop. So you really can get started in about five minutes, and people have had some
success running, you know, LLAMA 3.2 locally with various plugins for their IDEs. So it is definitely,
you can do it. Cloud's better, but you can totally do it.
Yeah, this is something that in my early days of exploring this, I've always been, you know, as an
open source, you know, advocate, hoping that these type of models do catch up in performance
across the board as the commercial ones. Do you think we're still a ways off, or do you think
the future is now with implementing these and say, within the firewall of an organization?
I haven't, I haven't played with 3.2 too much, but when I did, it was not, well, I should say,
I was only able to run the medium-sized one. I wasn't able to run the 405 gig version.
But everything, like, from the people I know that are more in tune with this stuff,
Cloud and GPT 4.0 are still pretty, pretty ahead. But, I mean, things change so fast that
nothing would surprise me about where those open source ones are a year from now. I mean,
literally nothing would surprise me at this point. I'm sorry, that made me, I completely spaced on,
if you haven't heard of Shiny Assistant, this is our wrapper around Cloud that was designed
specifically to help you. This is the Appsalot blog post about it. It's specifically designed
to help you, number one, answer questions about Shiny, but number two, actually write Shiny apps
for you. So, you can do it for Shiny, for R or Python, and, you know, ask one of these questions.
And it doesn't have to be one of those questions. It can be any question you want, but not only will
it answer, but it will kind of have this integrated Shiny live environment, and you can go back and
forth collaborating with the model. It often makes mistakes, and, like, there's some people
that just their mentality is, like, this thing made a mistake, I'm out. And other people who are,
like, this thing made a mistake, I wonder if I can get it to, you know, actually do it right.
And I gotta say, like, people who take the latter approach have been, like, remarkably successful
doing super cool things with Shiny Assistants. I definitely encourage you to give that a try.
Yep, I've been playing with that recently, ever since the word got out. And from my early days
of just using straight up co-pilot to try to generate Shiny snippets from years ago, when
really I was one of those people that was turned off pretty quickly. This is leaps and bounds better
than those early days. So, yeah, these models are important. Obviously, the work that you are doing
on the engineering side is paying off big for this. So, I think this is a tremendous asset for
those getting started with Shiny. Yeah, thank you. Yep. So, yeah, we're gonna probably wrap up so
quick here, Joe. But one last, like, parting word from you. For those that are still very new to this
space, and I can imagine our audience, a lot of us are still new to this. Do you have, like,
recommended resources that people can go to on top of, of course, the packages like Elmer and Shiny
Chat to really feel like they're getting up and running with these key concepts? Yeah, I think we
are working on, or Hadley is working on, more introductory material for Elmer right now.
So, I think you can expect a vignette, like, literally within the next few days.
But what's there already is, I think, pretty helpful. And the other one I would recommend,
unfortunately, is in Python. But Jeremy Howard did a keynote talk at PositConf, I think, two years ago.
Oh, no. 2023, maybe? Anyway, Jeremy Howard, PositConf keynote. And I think he did a really
excellent job of just distilling down the information. Like, instead of talking about
the theory and talking about the math, it was just like, if you're a hacker, you know, like,
if you're just someone who wants to write code, and wants to know, like, how do I interact with
LLMs, he really did a good job of boiling down, like, this is how they work programmatically.
And here's how tool calling works and, and all those things in a little more detail than I was
able to go today. Excellent. Well, on behalf of everybody here, we thank you so much for this
enlightening and inspiring presentation from a, again, I'll speak from a self-professed skeptic of
this in the very early days of this, you have convinced me that this is some I do not want
to ignore anymore. And I think with the right safeguards, this could be an influential technology
for all of us. So Joe, thank you so much for presenting to us at our pharma today. Thank you.